GSoC2024-announcement blog (#7120)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2024/02/2024-02-23-gsoc2023-announcement.adoc

For detailed information on Jenkins GSoC 2023, please refer to link:/projects/gsoc/2023/[the completed projects].

image:/images/gsoc/2024/GSoC2024-here-we-come.png[Here we come]

== What's next?
GSoC is link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/2024/02/mentor-organizations-announced-for.html[officially announced], and please expect more potential GSoC contributors to contact projects in our link:/projects/gsoc#contacts[Gitter and Discourse channels].
Many communications will also happen in SIG and sub-project channels.
We will be working hard in order to help potential participants to find interesting projects, to explore the relevant domain(s),
and to prepare their project proposals before the deadline on April 2nd (UTC).
Then we will process the applications, select projects, and assign mentor teams.

All information about the Jenkins GSoC is available on its link:/projects/gsoc/[sub-project page].

== How do I apply?

Refer to the link:/projects/gsoc/students[Information for students] page for full application guidelines.

> We encourage interested participants to reach out to the Jenkins community early and to start exploring project ideas.
> We also encourage participants to join the weekly link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UykfAHpPYtSx-r_PQIRikz2QUrX1SG-ySriz20rVmE0/edit?usp=sharing[Jenkins GSoC office hours].
> These meetings are set up for participants to meet org admins and mentors, and to ask questions.
> Also, join our link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[Gitter channel] and our link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[Discourse server] to receive information about such incoming events in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage interested participants to reach out to the Jenkins community early and start exploring project ideas.
We also encourage participants to join the weekly link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UykfAHpPYtSx-r_PQIRikz2QUrX1SG-ySriz20rVmE0/edit?usp=sharing[Jenkins GSoC office hours].
These meetings are for participants to meet org admins and mentors and to ask questions.
Also, be sure to join our link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[Gitter channel] and link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[Discourse server] to receive information about such incoming events in the project.
```
Suggestion to adjust some of the grammar and remove repeated words.
Also, it appears that the link for office hours is showing the 2023 document, is there an updated document to use at this time, or would it make sense to remove the link entirely if the office hours are not happening just yet?

The application period starts on March 18th (UTC), but you should prepare now!
Use the time before the application period to discuss and improve your project proposals.

> We also recommend that you become familiar with Jenkins and start exploring your proposal areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also recommend familiarizing yourself with Jenkins and exploring your proposal areas.
```
Suggestion to use active voice.

Project ideas include quick-start guidelines and reference newbie-friendly issues, which may help with your initial study.
If you do not see anything interesting, you can link:/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas/[propose your own project idea].

== I want to be a mentor. Is it too late?

It's not!
We are looking for more project ideas and for Jenkins contributors or users who are passionate about Jenkins and want to be a mentor.
No hardcore experience is required, as mentors can study the project internals together with GSoC contributors and technical advisors.

You can either propose a new project idea or join an existing one.

> See the link:/blog/2023/12/05/google-summer-of-code-a-call-for-mentors/[Call for mentors post]
> and link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[Information for mentors] for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:/blog/2023/12/05/google-summer-of-code-a-call-for-mentors/[call for mentors blog post] and link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[information for mentors] page have additional information on being a mentor.
```
Suggestion to combine the lines for one full sentence and adjust some of the syntax.

If you want to propose a new project, please do so as soon as possible so that potential GSoC contributors have time to explore them and prepare their proposals.

> This year mentorship does **NOT** require strong expertise in Jenkins development.
> The objective is to guide participants and to get involved into the Jenkins community.
> GSoC org admins will help to find advisors if special expertise is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, mentorship does **NOT** require strong expertise in Jenkins development.
The objective is to guide participants and get involved in the Jenkins community.
GSoC org admins will help find advisors if special expertise is required.
```
Suggestion to adjust some grammar and add punctuation where needed.

== Important dates for GSoC 2024

* *February 22 - March 18* - Potential GSoC contributors discuss application ideas with mentoring organizations.
Show link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[us] your proposal!
* *March 18* - The GSoC contributor application period begins.

> * *April 2* - GSoC contributor application deadline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *April 2* - The GSoC contributor application deadline.
```
Suggestion to add punctuation.

* *May 1* - Accepted GSoC contributor projects are announced.
* *May 1 - May 26* - Community Bonding Period | GSoC contributors get to know mentors, read documentation, and get up to speed to begin working on their projects.
* *May 27* - Coding officially begins!

> * *July 8* - Midterm evaluation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *July 8* - The Midterm evaluation deadline.
```
Suggestion to add punctuation and syntax so that the sentence is complete.

This will be Jenkins' seventh year as a mentoring organization. 

Congratulations to all link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2024/organizations[172 accepted open-source organizations]!

As a mentoring organization for the past six years, Jenkins has mentored 31 GSoC students by 85+ different mentors, bringing together over 107 strangers for a common idea - Jenkins! 

At the heart of it, GSoC is more than just a mentoring program.
The intention is to welcome and engage with new contributors in open source. 
It is about giving a little of your day to make a lifetime of difference, not only for the GSoC contributors, but also for the many Jenkins users who will benefit from the improvements.  

We are excited to welcome new GSoC contributors to the Jenkins family. 
We think you will enjoy this valuable experience while developing your technical skills. 
You will gain insights into how the community works. 
The best part will be learning from people who are passionate about Jenkins 
but more importantly they are passionate about wanting to make a difference for another individual (GSoC contributors) and for the betterment of the project as a whole.

> For detailed information on Jenkins GSoC 2023, see link:/projects/gsoc/2023/[the completed projects].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information on Jenkins GSoC 2023, please refer to link:/projects/gsoc/2023/[the completed projects].
```
Suggestion to adjust the syntax to make it grammatically smoother.

//FIXME: adapt image
image:/images/gsoc/2023/GSoC2023-here_we_come.png[Here we come]

== What's next?
GSoC is link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/2024/02/mentor-organizations-announced-for.html[officially announced], and please expect more potential GSoC contributors to contact projects in our link:/projects/gsoc#contacts[Gitter and Discourse channels].
Many communications will also happen in SIG and sub-project channels.
We will be working hard in order to help potential participants to find interesting projects, to explore the relevant domain(s),

> and to prepare their project proposals before the deadline on April 4th (UTC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and to prepare their project proposals before the deadline on April 2nd (UTC).
```

Then we will process the applications, select projects, and assign mentor teams.

All information about the Jenkins GSoC is available on its link:/projects/gsoc/[sub-project page].

== How do I apply?

Refer to the link:/projects/gsoc/students[Information for students] page for full application guidelines.

We encourage interested participants to reach out to the Jenkins community early and to start exploring project ideas.
We also encourage participants to join the weekly link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UykfAHpPYtSx-r_PQIRikz2QUrX1SG-ySriz20rVmE0/edit?usp=sharing[Jenkins GSoC office hours].
These meetings are set up for participants to meet org admins and mentors, and to ask questions.
Also, join our link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[Gitter channel] and our link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[Discourse server] to receive information about such incoming events in the project.

> The application period starts on March 20th (UTC), but you should prepare now!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application period starts on March 18th (UTC), but you should prepare now!
```

Use the time before the application period to discuss and improve your project proposals.
We also recommend that you become familiar with Jenkins and start exploring your proposal areas.
Project ideas include quick-start guidelines and reference newbie-friendly issues, which may help with your initial study.
If you do not see anything interesting, you can link:/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas/[propose your own project idea].

== I want to be a mentor. Is it too late?

It's not!
We are looking for more project ideas and for Jenkins contributors or users who are passionate about Jenkins and want to be a mentor.
No hardcore experience is required, as mentors can study the project internals together with GSoC contributors and technical advisors.

You can either propose a new project idea or join an existing one.
//FIXME: Fix the link

> See the link:/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship//[Call for mentors post]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the link:/blog/2023/12/05/google-summer-of-code-a-call-for-mentors/[Call for mentors post]
```
Updated link for mentors post

and link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[Information for mentors] for details.
If you want to propose a new project, please do so as soon as possible so that potential GSoC contributors have time to explore them and prepare their proposals.

This year mentorship does **NOT** require strong expertise in Jenkins development.
The objective is to guide participants and to get involved into the Jenkins community.
GSoC org admins will help to find advisors if special expertise is required.

== Important dates for GSoC 2024

> * *February 22 - March 19* - Potential GSoC contributors discuss application ideas with mentoring organizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *February 22 - March 18* - Potential GSoC contributors discuss application ideas with mentoring organizations.
```

Show link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[us] your proposal!

> * *March 20* - The GSoC contributor application period begins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *March 18* - The GSoC contributor application period begins.
```

> * *April 4* - GSoC contributor application deadline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *April 2* - GSoC contributor application deadline
```

> * *May 4* - Accepted GSoC contributor projects are announced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *May 1* - Accepted GSoC contributor projects are announced.
```

> * *May 4 - May 28* - Community Bonding Period | GSoC contributors get to know mentors, read documentation, and get up to speed to begin working on their projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *May 1 - May 26* - Community Bonding Period | GSoC contributors get to know mentors, read documentation, and get up to speed to begin working on their projects.
```

> * *May 29* - Coding officially begins!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *May 27* - Coding officially begins!
```

> * *July 14* - Midterm evaluation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *July 8* - Midterm evaluation
```

> * *August 21 - August 28* - Final week: GSoC contributors submit their final work product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *August 19 - August 26* - Final week: GSoC contributors submit their final work product.
```

> * *September 5* - Initial results of Google Summer of Code 2022 are published.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *September 3* - Initial results of Google Summer of Code 2024 are published.
```

> * *November 6* - Final date for all GSoC contributors to submit their final work product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *November 4* - Final date for all GSoC contributors to submit their final work product.
```
